- [Female Instructor] So now let's take a look at
the formatting module of JSTL.
For that I will require to
put on this taglib reference on my JSP page.
So I'm just going to copy this,
go to my Eclipse page of homejsp
and after that go to reference
and I'm going to give the fmt reference.
Alright, so we're going to see one formatting tab
and then we also want to see how to do localization
and internationalization with the fmt module.
So let's take a look at the localization
and internationalization first.
For that, I will be required to make a folder here.
Which is the resources folder.
So I'm going to make a folder
and let's say resources.
And this is of course another class part.
If you wish you can make this folder
directly on the projects structure,
but please remember that it should be a source folder.
Now why is this folder required?
When you talk about localization
and internationalization as I said,
the labels on your JSP page is like say,
for example, order number, product name,
or even this head line.
All of these right now are hard code values,
but we do not want to hard code them
because it leads to videos to maintainability.
So what we're going to do, we're going to do
store these labels in a central location in a file.
Which is a .properties file.
And we want to refer these labels from that file only.
We're not going to hard code any of the data,
so that if this label or if by chance this header
gets repeated any other page,
then we can refer it from that centralized file itself
rather than hardcoding again.
Because if you hard code the same redundant labels
in many screens and if it changes to modal
you may have to sit and change all of the JSP pages.
So we don't want to do that.
So for that I'm going to create a folder resources,
I have already done that.
And under that, I'm going to create a file,
which is called applicationresources.properties.
So this that I'm creating is a general
localization internationalization concept.
This file is called the ResourceBundle
and which will store all your labels,
your information messages, your error messages
so that you don't have to hard code them
inside your JSP page.
Okay, so how does the data go inside the properties file?
It is like this.
Let's say, label.header.orders.
You can follow any convention that your project decides,
but this is what I'm trying to do.
So I'm actually having orders labeled
that I have to display on the page
and it is the header for my table,
so that's how the convention has been decided.
And let me say this is Orders.
So once I do this, what I am also going to do is
I'm going to create the internationalization scenario.
So for that I'm going to create a copy of this file
and let's say right click file
or we can just copy this.
So I'm just going to copy that;
however this time I'm going to reserve this file
for the French language.
So if it's for the French language,
you'll have to open the French locale and then say OK.
So what I've done effectively is
this is for the English language
and this file however is for the French language, okay?
But the key in both is of course going to be the same.
The value is going to be according to the language.
So let's say in English I called it, Orders.
In French, I'll have to give it another name,
which is something like that, let's see.
Okay, so this is French name
and this is an English name
and I have two separate files.
So let's say tomorrow you want to put
another language for your application,
you want to configure your application for another locale,
you would have to make another ResourceBundle file
and that will be up under with the German locale characters.
Alright, and there to the key will exactly be the same,
but the value will be in German.
So that's how we can implement
localization and internationalization.
Yes, we are storing all the labels in a central location
and we are also making sure that the application runs
for a couple of languages.
In our case, English and French.
Alright, now let's go to homejsp
our fmt has been referenced right there at the top,
which is good.
Now let's go ahead and come down here.
And the first thing that we have to do is,
we have to make sure that that Bundle
that we have created, the ResourceBundle file,
is referred on this JSP.
So the way you do it is with that fmt task,
I'm going to say fmt setBundle, that's for that.
And the base name for it
is basically going to be the fully qualified
class name of that Resource file.
So I'm going to say
com.test.resources.applicationProperties, there you go.
Okay, and then, in order that we refer this file
in any of the other JSP code
that we've written down there.
We are going to also define
the rare attribute for this, alright?
I want to say,
var and I'm going to say message
let's say that's the variable that I want.
So basically if I want to refer to this file
anywhere in the rest of the JSP,
I need a variable for it and that's exactly
what I'm taking in the form of, message.
Alright, so now what we could do is
we could go to this head line,
this h2 element and instead of hard coding that
I'm now going to use the fmt message tag.
And what does it have,
it has the Bundle as an attribute
and it has the key as an attribute.
So the Bundle will be referred to by this message value.
So I'm going to refer it via the expression like that.
And once I do this, I can go ahead and also define the key.
Now this key is basically the one that
you have defined in your Bundle files.
I'm just going to take this copy,
come to the home, and paste it here.
Right?
So what we're essentially doing
through this fmt message tag is
we're picking up the Bundle file
which is the ResourceBundle application.properties,
and then we're going ahead and mentioning
the key that we have to pick up from that file
and we're referring that file here.
So there's one mistake that we have done here
this is not applicationProperties,
this is applicationResources.
So I'm just going to quickly rename that.
Yes, that's correct.
You don't need to give the extension,
you just have to give the name of the file.
Right, so application resources,
it's going to be referred by in the message variable.
I'm using that message variable here
and setting it to the Bundle attribute
and I am picking up this key from that file.
Likewise, all the other labels that you have
in your project in all your JSP pages
can be centralized and can be referred to
by the fmt:message tag.
Okay?
Let's also do one more thing
we were not very happy with the order date
that was displayed on the page.
So let's go ahead and format that page.
So I'm just going to cut that out
and on line number 61 I'm going to put one tag here.
Which is fmt formatDate, there you go.
Now the value is of course,
let's enter that expression
and the pattern that we want to follow
let's say YYYY and MM DD, okay.
Alright, so we have taken the fmt module
line number three, referenced it.
We declared the Bundles,
so that we can implement
localization and internationalization.
And we have also referred the header now
through the fmt:message tag.
Please understand localization internationalization
is a very common concept across
all the web applications that we implement today.
So be it with Servlet JSP
or be with any other framework
like Stripes 2, Spring MVC, or JSF Java Server Faces.
Everywhere localization and internationalization
is a must.
Alright.
So now that we have used
a couple of tags from the fmt module,
let's go ahead deploy this project
and check the changes.
Let me Login and enter the credentials
and let me click on order history.
So now do you see?
Now I think we are happy with the date
that we have displayed.
Moreover, this label is actually coming from
the fmt message tag that we followed.
Let's do one more thing,
I'm going to change the language of this browser.
Let's go to settings
and say language
and let's say our languages and add the French language.
That's the one.
Okay, let's say ADD and let me say that
do to Display Google Chrome in this language.
Good.
Now let's go ahead, close this tab, this tab as well.
Maybe Logout, and access our application again.
And say Login.
And then when we click on order history, do you see?
The word has changed now.
So it is actually picking up the key now
from the applicationResources_fr.properties file.
Now this is what happens.
So whenever you set your browser language
to the language that you need
and if your application has got
the internationalization facility plugged in
then all your labels and all your messages
are going to be displayed in the respective locale.
And that's what you can do with this fmt module.
Right, so there we are in like this
you can also create the properties files
for all the other languages
that your application wants to support
and whenever you changed the language
through the browser
the keys are going to be picked up accordingly.
Right?
So basically the keys are the same
in every file, as you see.
But the values are going to be different
as for that language.
Right, so this is about it for the fmt module.
In the next video, we are going to see
how can we double up our own tag library.